[MUSIC]
So, let's take a look at
more complicated example.
So the tougher challenge comes from
the point that in SHiP settings, we will
not have access to
origin of the shower.
So, and here we can explore
different methods to find the shower
in the volume of a brick,
just knowing that the shower is there.
So one of the approaches can be
based on clustering methods.
Some approaches can be based on
conditional random fields or
putting in all at once,
like message passing neural networks.
So, the solution I'm going to
describe follows this strategy.
First, we find neighbors for
selected tracks on neighbor plates.
Then we build chains of
5-track candidates, and
train a classification algorithm
to deal with those 5-tracks.
After this, we apply a cluster
showers using DB-SCAN algorithm.
So we group those showers
together to identify
where exactly in the volume of
a brick those showers are located.
Let's take a look at the first stage.
So, how do we find a neighbor for a track
that sits in the bottom left corner?
So the grey vertical
bars represent plates, so
there are two plates, neighbor plates.
And on the second plate in
the middle of the picture,
you have three different base tracks,
right?
Imagine we prolonged the line of the left
base track to the second plate.
So we have to look at the combination
of features, like distances and angles,
to find the most suitable continuation
of the original track, right?
So, this picture shows that
we have to be careful or
somehow find the good
combination of the distance and
angles that can be applied,
searching for our next basetrack.
And then we can compute
different features of
those tracks that we have joined together.
Like angle between directions,
impact parameters, mixed product of two
directions, vector connecting positions
of basetracks, and some projections.
And in this case,
we differ from the case with known origin,
that we do not rely on a position of the
origin, so we just compute those features.
And as we connect a chain
of five tracks and
apply the same XGboost or random forest,
we can get to the precision
that is comparable to
the algorithm when we knew
the origin of the shower.
So, it is actually fascinating
that those algorithm
operate on the same level of accuracy.
But in this case,
we have much less information
about signal we are looking for.
So, here is an illustration
how the density of tracks
goes down with the threshold
of a classifier.
So, we range from 100% of
the tracks to 10 or 5% of a signal.
And you see how drastically reduces number
of background tracks were
depicted by red color.
So, going even further,
we might be wondering
how can we find different
showers in the volume.
So it is a realistic scenario for
the case of showers, and
here we can apply clustering algorithm.
The most trivial one of those
algorithms is K means algorithm.
So, the basic idea that seems to
be behind this algorithm is that,
for each point in the cluster
we can find a center nearby.
And here you can see illustration, well,
actually interactive if
you follow the link below.
So, and
the algorithm is starting with given
the number of clusters
that we are going to find.
And then we randomly throw a bunch
of centers at the picture or
select random centers among the points.
Iteratively we update
the centers of the cluster, or
update the color of every point.
And eventually it converges to some
configuration, generally, it works.
But in some cases,
it produces a little bit
funny pictures like you see
at this image of a smile.
That the K-means algorithm did not
capture a complicated dependency.
For example it cannot build
a separate cluster for
the circle shape and for eyes for example.
So, another approach that we can
apply here is called density-based
spatial clustering of
applications with noise, or
DBSCAN for short,
it relies on two parameters.
The first one is epsilon,
which is maximum distance to neighbors,
and minimum number of points that
are required to form a cluster.
It works the following way,
we pick a point and start with it,
with a random point, and then find
all the neighbors that sits within
the absolute distance from this point,
and iterate until we run out of points.
So then we pick a new arbitrary point
that hasn't been marked by color yet,
and repeat the process.
If a point has fewer numbers
of neighbors than midpoints in
this epsilon vicinity,
then we'd drop those points.
So, and we repeat this process
until no points are left.
And if we apply such an algorithm to
a number of tracks that has been
preselected by previous algorithms,
we can get a little bit
more interesting picture,
with showers emerging from the volume.
The thing is that it's not very realistic
because the distance metric that we
used for this cluster algorithm that
when we computed this epsilon bowl for
every given track, it just relies on
Euclidean distance, right?
But we learned before
that we have to take care
not only about relative positions, but
also relative angles between tracks.
So, to improve the quality of the
algorithm we have to take into account, or
add to the metric,
additional term that corresponds
to the distance between angles.
So, it's kind of improved
version of the metric.
On illustration you see that
sometimes the closest basetracks,
according to Euclidean metrics, are not
really belonging to the same shower,
so you have to take angles into account.
So, as a result the same volume of
brick might look much more realistic.
So, showers are better visible here,
although there is still room for
improvement because in this case
some plates are missing and
one you have to take into account for
directional alignment of the tracks.
So, further ideas for improvement
might include adding more advanced
techniques like conditional random
fields or recurrent neural networks.
But, I encourage you to explore when you
will be completing your home tasks.
And I hope that you will be
able to bypass the baseline
quality in this task, in this problem.
[MUSIC]